Add JSON-RPC API docs [Fixes #2322] (#2352)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/developers/docs/apis/json-rpc/index.md

---
title: JSON RPC API
description: A stateless, light-weight remote procedure call (RPC) protocol
lang: en
sidebar: true
---

> The JSON-RPC specification allows for an application programming interface (API), similar to REST or GraphQL, with endpoints served from an Ethereum node. Several [JavaScript](/developers/docs/apis/javascript/#available-libraries) and [backend](/developers/docs/apis/backend/#available-libraries) libraries exist that conform to this specification, enabling developers to utilize up-to-date on-chain data while building [web3](/developers/docs/web2-vs-web3/) enabled [Dapps](/glossary/#dapp).

Reviewer: This first sentence really confuses me.

the JSON RPC spec allows for an API with endpoints served from an ethereum node.

Does this mean it allows you to configure an API to call endpoints from an ethereum node?

I think the first sentence has too much going on to be clear. Once we've fixed this I think we can ship!

```bash
geth --rpc
```

change the default port (8545) and listing address (localhost) with:

```bash
geth --rpc --rpcaddr <ip> --rpcport <portnumber>
```

If accessing the RPC from a browser, CORS will need to be enabled with the appropriate domain set. Otherwise, JavaScript calls are limit by the same-origin policy and requests will fail:

```bash
geth --rpc --rpccorsdomain "http://localhost:3000"
```

The JSON RPC can also be started from the [geth console](https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/interface/javascript-console) using the `admin.startRPC(addr, port)` command.

### C++ {#cpp}

You can start it by running `eth` application with `-j` option:

```bash
./eth -j
```

You can also specify JSON-RPC port (default is 8545):

```bash
./eth -j --json-rpc-port 8079
```

### Python {#python}

In python the JSONRPC server is currently started by default and listens on `127.0.0.1:4000`

You can change the port and listen address by giving a config option.

`pyethapp -c jsonrpc.listen_port=4002 -c jsonrpc.listen_host=127.0.0.2 run`

### Java {#java}

Run a Besu node on mainnet with the HTTP JSON-RPC service enabled:

```bash
besu --rpc-http-enabled
```

> More details can be found in the [documentation](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/Reference/CLI/CLI-Syntax/#rpc-http-enabled).

Reviewer 2: Could we link to this https://besu.hyperledger.org/HowTo/Interact/APIs/Using-JSON-RPC-API/ which explains more how to run Besu with RPC and how to use it. The ref link is correct but we prefer to point to guides instead of refs directly. Also I suggest a clearer link name that will help for search and indexing that a generic one and include some examples of parameters you can find in this doc as they are described for other clients. Thanks!
```suggestion
Read the [Besu JSON-RPC documentation](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/HowTo/Interact/APIs/Using-JSON-RPC-API/) for details about configuring the service (listening ip, port, cors, ...).
```

Author: @NicolasMassart I'm in favor of this, thanks for posting. I agree this link is clearer, and the landing page is more inviting. 👍

sidebar: true
---

> A remote procedure call, or RPC, is a method of retrieving or being notified of information from a given data source in an asynchronous manner. [JSON-RPC](http://www.jsonrpc.org/specification) is a stateless, light-weight RPC protocol, that defines several data structures and the rules around their processing. It is transport agnostic in that the concepts can be used within the same process, over sockets, over HTTP, or in many various message passing environments. It uses [JSON](http://json.org/) as data format.

Reviewer: I might be wrong here but this feels like a generic explanation of what an RPC is? Is there something we can add to provide context of why it's relevant to Ethereum development? Maybe that's obvious from this overview if you're a developer but it's not clear to me.

Author: Happy to... Was on the fence about keeping it more generic, but can add some tie-in here.

Publish / subscribe (pub/sub) is a method of using JSON-RPC notifications to subscribe to Ethereum events without needing to poll for them:

- [Geth v1.4](https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/rpc/pubsub)

- [Hyperledger Besu 1.3](https://besu.hyperledger.org/en/stable/HowTo/Interact/APIs/RPC-PubSub/)

_[Jump ahead to endpoints](/developers/docs/apis/json-rpc/reference)_

> ## JavaScript API

Reviewer: Don't forget heading IDs e.g. {#javascript-API}

Author: Good catch... only did this on the `/reference/` page, I'll update this file
